README.md, before:

# ceres-framework

Opinionated node.js framework for React single page applications

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ceres-framework.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ceres-framework)
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/ship-components/ceres-framework/master.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/ship-components/ceres-framework)
[![Coveralls](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/ship-components/ceres-framework.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/ship-components/ceres-framework)
[![dependencies](https://img.shields.io/david/ship-components/ceres-framework.svg?style=flat)](https://david-dm.org/ship-components/ceres-framework)

## Installation

### Command Line Interface

Ceres comes with a simple CLI to help setup the framework. Just install the package globally and it'll be available everywhere.

```shell
npm install ceres-framework -g
```

### Bootstrapping a new application

```shell
mkdir example && cd example/
ceres create example
./example.js init
./example.js run
```

## History

- 1.4.2 - Fixed issue with package-lock.json being out of sync
- 1.4.1 - Updated bookshelf version to fix transaction bug
- 1.4.0 - Added support for Bookshelf.js plugins, fixed issue causing a Promise warning in wrapRoute
- 1.3.5 - Fixed bug with default error handler, pushed min node version to 8
- 1.3.4 - Fixed a bug where the wrong value was returned from load when no database is enabled
- 1.3.3 - Fixed a bug causing an infinite setup loop and added the "connected" event
- 1.3.2 - Disabled throttle by default. Enabled configuration of redis connection for throttle
- 1.3.1 - Fixed issue where errors would always return html in debug mode and fixed a bug where logs were showing [[Object object]] when they shoudn't
- 1.3.0 - Added the ability to pass a database factory method for better decoupling of models. Update logging messages so its clearer when this used.
- 1.2.1 - Fixed an issue with detecting master status for fork mode. Fixed missing port env config for fork mode.
- 1.2.0 - Added support for pass in a preconfigure Config object so we can centralize configuration options across multiple service. Refactored how config is processed to better support injecting config.
- 1.1.3 - Downgraded bookshelf until we can fix it
- 1.1.2 - Updated dependencies, fixed a bug preventing the app from starting when running more than one instance
- 1.1.1 - Fixed some linting errors. Bugfix for Pids
- 1.1.0 - On startup by default if an existing pid is running Ceres will send a sigterm signal to the old process to try to cleaning shut it down. Fixed issue with incorrect http status code for forbidden / permission dendied requests. Improved startup time logging. Added a catch statement for when youch fails.
- 1.0.1 - Fixed a big preventing results generated from promises from returning. Updated start up logging levels and messages.
- 1.0.0 - Dropped support for node 4. Fixed infinite restart loop in cluster mode. Updated dependencies.
- 0.15.1 - Fixed issue with 404 handler not triggering properly, display error id in pretty error display
- 0.15.0 - Added error_id to errors for better error tracking, added more metadata to error logging, added pretty error responses while in debug mode, update dependencies
- 0.14.0 - Updated React dependencies (for React 16 compatibility)
- 0.13.13 - fixed "tuple concurrently updated" issue with liveDb
- 0.13.12 - Updated express and momentp fixed issue with headers already sent log spam
- 0.13.11 - Switched to jest unit test framework, added junit test results, added clover.xml coverage. Limited React to v15 for now.
- 0.13.10 - Added stack trace for unrecognized errors
- 0.13.9 - Updated engine property in package.json to node >= v4.5 and fixed issue with default error logging
- 0.13.8 - Replaced the fetch function for updating to read - to fix the bug with fetch returns null
- 0.13.7 - Updated pg to address security advisory. Removed extra fields from error responses
- 0.13.6 - Fixed missing exit code in logging and added argv to error to better track which process is exiting
- 0.13.5 - Improved error logging and handling of worker exits. Fixed memory leak warning. Updated dependencies. Added logstash option to json logs
- 0.13.4 - Fixed issue with multiple instances of ceres being run at the same time, fixed issue with the wrong log level being using in error middleware
- 0.13.3 - Added more configuration options for express: viewCache, viewEngine. Switched production env switch to a debug config switch since not all prod environments are called production
- 0.13.2 - Reduce log spam related to cron scripts. Fixed issue with access log not always saving and made its format configurable.
- 0.13.1 - Made session resave, saveUninitialized, and rolling configurable. Fixed view cache typo
- 0.13.0 - Added human readable log option. Fixed issue where pid wasn't created for single instance of cluster, updated dependency versions.
- 0.12.0 - Removed rotating access logs. Added option to enable access log skipping. Added trustProxy options. Made compression configurable. Added options to make cookies configurable
- 0.11.0 - Made default processManagement cluster option not sticky and moved sticky cluster to it's own option
- 0.10.1 - Added a check to see if headers have already been sent
- 0.10.0 - Removed BookshelfModel.query, Made native bookshelf functions available directly on BookshelfModel. Update error messaging middleware. Added promise support for controller methods. Switched bigints in postgres from strings to numbers. Merged parents params into children routers. Default postCreate method for bookself now returns relations
- 0.9.5 - Extracts and optimized the deepCopy function (previously as deepClone) to return the correct data format.
- 0.9.4 - Updates the deepClone function and Ceres.prototype.run function's call scope
- 0.9.3 - Added env variable so children know their index
- 0.9.0 - Removed multer from default setup and fixed issue bug preventing no database from being selected
- 0.8.0 - Add option for BookselfModel.read to read an array of ids. Fork bug fixes. Improved Logging.
- 0.7.0 - Added forking option, more unit tests and refactoring
- 0.6.1 - Refactored merge in config and added initial unit testing setup
- 0.6.0 - Added redis caching
- 0.5.2 - Upgraded logging packages, ensure timestamps are neabled and added option for custom loggers
- 0.5.0 - Add mongo support

This creates the basic folder structure and a default configuration in the current folder.

## Documentation

- [Config](docs/config.md)
- [Controllers](docs/controllers.md)
- [Models](docs/models.md)
- [Routing (see Controllers)](docs/controllers.md)

Commit message:

added node inspector support for forking

README.md, after:

# ceres-framework

Opinionated node.js framework for React single page applications

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ceres-framework.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ceres-framework)
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/ship-components/ceres-framework/master.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/ship-components/ceres-framework)
[![Coveralls](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/ship-components/ceres-framework.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/ship-components/ceres-framework)
[![dependencies](https://img.shields.io/david/ship-components/ceres-framework.svg?style=flat)](https://david-dm.org/ship-components/ceres-framework)

## Installation

### Command Line Interface

Ceres comes with a simple CLI to help setup the framework. Just install the package globally and it'll be available everywhere.

```shell
npm install ceres-framework -g
```

### Bootstrapping a new application

```shell
mkdir example && cd example/
ceres create example
./example.js init
./example.js run
```

## History

- 1.4.3 - Added support for node inspector by disabling forking when only a single port is provided
- 1.4.2 - Fixed issue with package-lock.json being out of sync
- 1.4.1 - Updated bookshelf version to fix transaction bug
- 1.4.0 - Added support for Bookshelf.js plugins, fixed issue causing a Promise warning in wrapRoute
- 1.3.5 - Fixed bug with default error handler, pushed min node version to 8
- 1.3.4 - Fixed a bug where the wrong value was returned from load when no database is enabled
- 1.3.3 - Fixed a bug causing an infinite setup loop and added the "connected" event
- 1.3.2 - Disabled throttle by default. Enabled configuration of redis connection for throttle
- 1.3.1 - Fixed issue where errors would always return html in debug mode and fixed a bug where logs were showing [[Object object]] when they shoudn't
- 1.3.0 - Added the ability to pass a database factory method for better decoupling of models. Update logging messages so its clearer when this used.
- 1.2.1 - Fixed an issue with detecting master status for fork mode. Fixed missing port env config for fork mode.
- 1.2.0 - Added support for pass in a preconfigure Config object so we can centralize configuration options across multiple service. Refactored how config is processed to better support injecting config.
- 1.1.3 - Downgraded bookshelf until we can fix it
- 1.1.2 - Updated dependencies, fixed a bug preventing the app from starting when running more than one instance
- 1.1.1 - Fixed some linting errors. Bugfix for Pids
- 1.1.0 - On startup by default if an existing pid is running Ceres will send a sigterm signal to the old process to try to cleaning shut it down. Fixed issue with incorrect http status code for forbidden / permission dendied requests. Improved startup time logging. Added a catch statement for when youch fails.
- 1.0.1 - Fixed a big preventing results generated from promises from returning. Updated start up logging levels and messages.
- 1.0.0 - Dropped support for node 4. Fixed infinite restart loop in cluster mode. Updated dependencies.
- 0.15.1 - Fixed issue with 404 handler not triggering properly, display error id in pretty error display
- 0.15.0 - Added error_id to errors for better error tracking, added more metadata to error logging, added pretty error responses while in debug mode, update dependencies
- 0.14.0 - Updated React dependencies (for React 16 compatibility)
- 0.13.13 - fixed "tuple concurrently updated" issue with liveDb
- 0.13.12 - Updated express and momentp fixed issue with headers already sent log spam
- 0.13.11 - Switched to jest unit test framework, added junit test results, added clover.xml coverage. Limited React to v15 for now.
- 0.13.10 - Added stack trace for unrecognized errors
- 0.13.9 - Updated engine property in package.json to node >= v4.5 and fixed issue with default error logging
- 0.13.8 - Replaced the fetch function for updating to read - to fix the bug with fetch returns null
- 0.13.7 - Updated pg to address security advisory. Removed extra fields from error responses
- 0.13.6 - Fixed missing exit code in logging and added argv to error to better track which process is exiting
- 0.13.5 - Improved error logging and handling of worker exits. Fixed memory leak warning. Updated dependencies. Added logstash option to json logs
- 0.13.4 - Fixed issue with multiple instances of ceres being run at the same time, fixed issue with the wrong log level being using in error middleware
- 0.13.3 - Added more configuration options for express: viewCache, viewEngine. Switched production env switch to a debug config switch since not all prod environments are called production
- 0.13.2 - Reduce log spam related to cron scripts. Fixed issue with access log not always saving and made its format configurable.
- 0.13.1 - Made session resave, saveUninitialized, and rolling configurable. Fixed view cache typo
- 0.13.0 - Added human readable log option. Fixed issue where pid wasn't created for single instance of cluster, updated dependency versions.
- 0.12.0 - Removed rotating access logs. Added option to enable access log skipping. Added trustProxy options. Made compression configurable. Added options to make cookies configurable
- 0.11.0 - Made default processManagement cluster option not sticky and moved sticky cluster to it's own option
- 0.10.1 - Added a check to see if headers have already been sent
- 0.10.0 - Removed BookshelfModel.query, Made native bookshelf functions available directly on BookshelfModel. Update error messaging middleware. Added promise support for controller methods. Switched bigints in postgres from strings to numbers. Merged parents params into children routers. Default postCreate method for bookself now returns relations
- 0.9.5 - Extracts and optimized the deepCopy function (previously as deepClone) to return the correct data format.
- 0.9.4 - Updates the deepClone function and Ceres.prototype.run function's call scope
- 0.9.3 - Added env variable so children know their index
- 0.9.0 - Removed multer from default setup and fixed issue bug preventing no database from being selected
- 0.8.0 - Add option for BookselfModel.read to read an array of ids. Fork bug fixes. Improved Logging.
- 0.7.0 - Added forking option, more unit tests and refactoring
- 0.6.1 - Refactored merge in config and added initial unit testing setup
- 0.6.0 - Added redis caching
- 0.5.2 - Upgraded logging packages, ensure timestamps are neabled and added option for custom loggers
- 0.5.0 - Add mongo support

This creates the basic folder structure and a default configuration in the current folder.

## Documentation

- [Config](docs/config.md)
- [Controllers](docs/controllers.md)
- [Models](docs/models.md)
- [Routing (see Controllers)](docs/controllers.md)
